the World Health Organization has made
an urgent appeal to Israeli forces over
the storming of the Ala Hospital in Gaza
The Who Chief says 140 medical staff
patients and their civilian companions
were inside that hospital when it was
raided by Israeli Soldiers the hospital
is located in the jabalia refugee camp
Tedros gabrius is calling for the
protection of patients and health
workers inside the hospital and safe
passage for their
evacuation Al jazer spoke with one of
the doctors as he made the journey away
from the
hospital we were at the hospital as
usual we never left at all we never even
thought of quitting on our patients and
the injured people 4 days ago we were
taken by surprise when the Israeli
military besieged the hospital they
would not allow anyone inside we stayed
to care for the lives of our patient
we had 14 patients who we continued to
give Medical Care to then today at 3:00
the Israeli Army forced nearly all of us
from the hospital the patients remained
inside with four medical staff and two
paramedics to care for them all of us
have been ordered to leave the hospital
and keep walking towards West Gaza we
are walking till we reach a safe area
and to find shelter we want to reach a
safe place and to shelter the medical
staff who remained at Al ala hospital
since October 7th until now they never
left and now their homes are destroyed
and they have nowhere to
go we have sent several appeals to the
wh to the Red Cross and to our partners
with Doctors Without Borders to
intervene to protect the
patients they all promised to intervene
and to talk to the occupation forces to
prevent targeting the hospital the
patients and not to Target the medical
staff but I haven't seen anything
done from here from this street I appeal
to all International organizations and
all medical related officials especially
the wh calling upon them to intervene to
protect what remains of the hospital the
patients in the hospital and the medical
staff who refus to leave and continue to
care for those
patients we'll bring in who's joining us
from in central Gaza to tell us what
exactly is happening at hospital t as
well as the state of other hospitals
across the strip at this
[Music]
moment well during basically hospitals
in the medical sector are completely uh
one of the basic tenants of netanyahu's
military plan that aiming to completely
uh kill and destroy the medical sector
and to make it completely out of service
um the ongoing on precedented Military
offensive on the territory as we've been
hearing from medics in the north of this
strip in particular in Al AA hospital
they have been forced by the Israeli
military to flee from the hospital and
to no longer remain providing medical
services for injured people as a part of
the ongoing military campaign on jabalia
refugee camp now Al ala hospital is so
close from the camp but it's responsible
for providing medical treatment for
wounded resulted from the ongoing uh
brutalization of civilians and ongoing
attacks on that very densely populated
area dozens of medics in fact have been
uh fled fleeing the hospital but there
are still a number of doctors and
medical workers inside the hospital
refused to flee until the occupation
forces bring them ambulances in order to
flee the wounded people who are unable
to walk on foot as other medic and wed
people managed to do previously and they
are in a very desperate need for a
medical assistance and an ambulance that
can help them to get from the place that
they right now turn to be a military
base for the Israeli Army and similarly
is Kamal Udan Hospital which is only far
away from that Hospital's one kilometer
it means that there is a full medical
Siege being imposed on those hospitals
and the north of the strip as there are
dozens of injuries and even victims are
still lined on the ground in the streets
of jabalia refugee camp without getting
any kind of rescue operations either by
The Rescuers and emergency workers or by
the medics who are grappling to reach to
that locations due to the Israeli
ongoing bombardment and the existence of
the military troops there yeah t it so
uh bring us up to speed with what's
happening uh when it comes to uh the
attacks across the Gaza Strip as well as
the fighting that's on the
ground well it is quite hard to say that
one area is not coming under the Israeli
fires the entire strip has been
completely subjected to the Israeli
aerial and land bombardment and in
particular we see that there is a
gradual expansion of the fighting now to
reach to the central areas of Rafa this
is what the defense minister U Al Galant
has been stating before that they are so
determined to expand the military
operations and confrontations now in Raa
according to eyewitnesses are taking
place in yna refugee camp which is one
of the central neighborhoods of Rafa
District but at the same time we have
been hearing from locals that the
Israeli military qu copter drones have
set fire to fishermen pots on the
coastal uh shore of rafah District that
is very adjacent to borders with Egypt
and this is a part of the ongoing
systematic military campaign in the city
as more residential buildings were
targeted were at least six Palestinians
have been reported killed in the far
south city of Rafa but similarly in
other parts of this trip more than 35
Palestinians have been killed so far in
Gaza City where mosque's residential
buildings evacuation centers were
targeted as more military attacks have
been carried out by the Israeli
maneuvering troops and even within the
past couple of hours the Israeli Army
has announced officially a new invasion
of B hanu town by one of the military
brigades as now the numbers of military
division that working inside the Gaza
Strip had reached to 10 it means that
the Israeli military is resuming the
fighting in the vast majority of Gaza
Strip areas okay thank you so much T
reporting from in central
Gaza make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer